I really know how lame it is to come on
to youtube and watch youtubers talking
with each other about YouTube it's part
of our lives if you make youtube videos
if you spend your time interacting other
people making friends on YouTube you
know it's like the old days there used
to be shortwave radio ham radio and when
people make friends over this type of
radio the first thing you're going to
talk about is how to use this special
radio right if you make friends over
YouTube right away right off the bat
when you first meet them if you start
talking the one thing you've got in
common is that you're both on youtube of
course if you're both vegan and you're
on vegan YouTube you're going to talk
about vegan YouTube it's not an
intentionally constructed echo chamber
it's not an intellectual ghetto but like
I did I did a conversation yesterday to
our broadcasts we recorded a podcast
together with a guy who uses the
nickname dumb vegan obviously the names
a joke and because he's a vegan on
YouTube now I'm a vegan on youtube it's
the first time we've ever talked
naturally you're gonna talk about what
you have in common see talk about making
YouTube apologies apologies but it's
it's a real part of my life and when I
meet these people we first strike a
conversation naturally it's one of the
things you first talked about off the
bat okay under that heading under that
rubric one of the things we all end up
talking about is who is crossing the
line what is the line what are the
ethical lines or what are we even the
lines of good taste of good conduct here
on YouTube what we do in this digital
vegan debbie monde as aspiring activists
as aspiring advocates for veganism as
people who want to make the world a
better place or in some cases as
shameless fame [ __ ] who are just
trying to get their 5000 views and there
are eighty dollars a month in Adsense
revenue or whatever they make um because
different people play the game by
different rules different people have
different objectives and you know like
anything else I mean ultimately YouTube
is an art form it's just barely an art
form it's a very spare art form the
questions of what is good taste what is
good content what's a positive
contribution those questions will always
be there they're there for the theater
therefore stand-up comedy they're there
for radio you know
do I mean as an art form obviously it's
it's similar to radio broadcasters if
you come on every day and try to talk
about politics on the radio we try to
talk about your own life in the radio
whatever it is you talk about um they're
going to be those questions when he
crossed in line is crossed my net cetera
when I first started talking to vegan
gains years ago now i think his channel
was new etc um one of the first stops
conversation i had with him was I was
really talking about i thought he was
crossing the line for me it's not a
legal line but for me I think whipping
out a knife on camera is crossing a line
I think whipping out a gun on camera is
crossing the line now I believe he's
only used fake guns on camera you know
he's waved a gun but you know I don't I
don't think that's cool now it's
different when it's a sketch comedy or a
drama or a script if you're acting out a
scene from Hamlet you use a sword
drafting at a scene from Macbeth you
know that's different oh but you know I
did think back in the start of his
channel I really said to him look from
my perspective this is the line and
you're crossing the line so I completely
supplies the fact that other people
write to me and from their perspective
they're saying that I'm crossing the
line that's part of what we do on
YouTube so with that caveat hadn't been
stated yeah Here I am a vegan on YouTube
talking about vegan youtube this is how
you get stuck into the echo chamber but
it's also a legitimate set of ethical
and political questions and it's even a
legitimate set of artistic and
entertainment related questions right
but you say sorry to come back to being
gains briefly you know inition he has a
gun on camera all the time but he's
acting out a script I don't think in
this scene has ever whipped out a gun or
a knife and and made threats to people
in real life that comes like so mean
drawing the line it's a conversation
that may never end for us here on
YouTube um and obviously ultimately with
durianrider he made real threats of
violence against me he really defamed me
etc and I had to draw a line in more
ways than one and now we got a court
case together and he can pretend the
court case is fake but he knows it's
real and the court case again may end in
failure everyone is innocent till proven
guilty and it's totally possible that
the judge is just gonna throw it at a
court and say yeah good story bro
we don't care we ain't giving you no
justice happens so a court systems work
you plead your case you find out what
the judge wants to do with it so I got I
got a message here from a guy named
Andrew now this is also interesting to
me in a sense anyone could have read
this message from Andrew and treated him
as a troll or treated him as
mean-spirited treatments an insincere
and it's just a choice um I chose to
reply to this assuming that he was
sincerely raising these questions about
me crossing the line and in this case I
think we had a more meaningful
conversation for that reason I just want
to say I disagree with Andrew I'm not
angry at Andrew I'm not offended I
really disagree with them and a big part
of what we do in politics what we need
to be able to do is disagree with our
fellow man without hating on uh without
okay he'd you know what even hate is
permissible in politics okay within the
Republican Party there's hatred within
the Conservative Party there's hatred
within Liberals and the NDP you know
what even even hatred is not crossing
the line okay but I mean if we're gonna
hate each other let's hate each other
while maintaining our own dignity and
while giving other people so I'm sure it
did Lee but understandably Andrew here
is challenging me because he thinks
across the line and I disagree so let's
talk about that for one minute here
anter says quote I watched you trash
freely and durianrider for months before
you went to chiang mai you're deeply ad
hominem attacks were brutal you were
angry resentful and in my opinion
appeared hell-bent on their destruction
you used words like idiots stupid fraud
fake mentally ill scumbag and many more
that I do not recall off the top of my
head you also also bashed their festival
the festival comma the people who attend
the festival and a certain brand of
vegan youtubers generally pause okay so
I'm going to stop reading the quote now
and just respond to that rather bad um I
don't think Andrew was doing this
intentionally but he is misrepresenting
what I said just by depriving these
things of their context context matters
intention matters ultimately even your
tone of voice matters blah blah blah um
there are many contexts in which it
would be definite
tion and in my opinion would be a crime
and would be crossing the line to call
someone mentally ill there are many
contexts in which I think that would be
bad and immoral and wrong and when I
would delete my own video if I had said
that backs and if I said it
spontaneously or something and then
later I would regret it definitely
calling someone insane or mentally ill
claiming that they're legally speaking
insane i think is serious defamation
okay so i would agree if i were guilty
with that that i was crossing a line
durianrider i read i quoted him verbatim
i read his own description his own
statement that he had been diagnosed as
insane i read and we put the text on
screen so you could see the text you
could hear my voice reading it i read
his descriptions of how he had been
diagnosed with schizophrenia and other
serious mental disorders and I told
people my message was it wasn't an
insult it wasn't defamation my message
was this is somebody who's admitted to
you he has serious mental illnesses and
you're choosing to ignore that warning
it's not even me warning you I was
telling the audience you need to
recognize how serious it is that this
man says medical professionals have
diagnosed him with these disorders
that's his claim I'm not defaming him by
quoting that claim or in other videos by
briefly summarizing it as I just did
that's not defamation that's not even an
insult and the warning to the audience
is obviously very meaningful in this
context the particular political dispute
I have with during writer okay so to say
this man by his own description says
he's been diagnosed with schizophrenia
very important point to why do I raise
it at all why does it come up well yes
there's a broader political context of
during writers political leadership
there are other issues there's during
writer defaming denouncing attacking
other people there were other ethical
issues but above all else he also
claimed that he cured his schizophrenia
and he claimed that you also can cure
schizophrenia he attacked and denounced
the whole medical establishment he has
many videos describing doctors as scam
artists describing all medication as a
scam and specifically laying into
psychiatrists the psychiatric profession
any
kind of mental health profession as a
scam and saying you should not take meds
like if you're currently prescribed meds
for a psychiatric condition you should
just stop you should quit your meds and
him sitting on his philosophy and his
diet plan for how you should heal
yourself this is serious business okay
this and now I do not know if they are
true I have seen people say on the
internet they followed during writers
advice and it had negative effects and
lips that they quit their medication etc
is very easy to imagine someone being
convinced by this a charismatic
personality on the internet claiming
that you don't need that that your
doctor is a scam artist your doctor is
lying to you your medication is not
making you healthy it's making you sick
the type of approach he has obviously
has very real negative impacts for
people so for me to come on and critique
that and expose that and address that
that is not at all what you're
describing your andrew is coming on the
internet hell-bent on someone's
disruption calling them idiot stupid
fraud fake mentally ill now i do not
think andrew was intentionally lying
here I don't think he's even that's just
how he remembers it that's just how he
feels about it I appreciate that I
really think he's being sincere but he's
also wrong so another one he has here is
the word fraud on this channel I very
specifically addressed free Lee's claims
to having a certificate or diploma that
she does not in fact have my video was
very reasonable I got in touch with the
University it's not really University
the training institute that her diploma
or certificate is from it's not really
University no shade but whatever it's a
training institute I got in touch with
them i scrutinized her claim about what
her diploma was supposed to be and in
that video i was very generous I said
look I'm willing to assume that she's
telling the truth based on what she says
and what this the institution this
educational station says I'm going to
assume she's not lying a professional
journalists at a newspaper in Australia
they looked into it and they concluded
that she was lying
okay why would you use the word fraud to
describe someone who gives dietary and
medical advice and who claims to have
credentials they don't have again it
could be crossing the line all right yes
it could be crossing the line to say
this sort of thing about someone to say
that they're a fraud or to say they're
mentally ill by taking it out of context
this way it is very clear I was not
crossing the line okay then to be
honestly when I started making this
video I thought I would read this whole
message and read my reply this is 11
minutes long I think I'm going to keep
this short and sweet I think that is the
fundamental point I want to communicate
with you right now maybe hearing you now
with the chat or read the rest of the
message we can talk about it but I admit
it sounds self-indulgent when youtubers
come on and talk about YouTube talk of
1m cross the line etc what's really
self-indulgent is what you're doing in
this message if you want to engage in a
sincere critique of me and what I have
to say it's not just a matter of context
you have to look at the intention you
have to look at what I'm doing what I'm
do I am doing you have to look at this
as a real dispute within a real
political struggle because veganism is a
political movement whether you like it
or not what do you admit it to yourself
or not the same way that political
leaders get criticized for their claims
I have to criticize someone like
durianrider for lying to you about
medication and the nature of psychiatric
help the psychiatric care I have to
criticize freely for spreading false
pseudo scientific information about your
calorie intake but how much diet how
much exercise you need to burn 4000 5000
calories and lose weight for lying about
whether or not you should eat garlic
because garlic is a neurotoxin yes these
are actually meaningful questions for me
as someone who regards veganism as
political movement is concerned about
the future of veganism it's not just ad
hominem it's not meaningless bashing or
something this to me this is real and
this is meaningful it to you it's it's
not that's ok but actually if you Andrew
in writing this comment or make your own
videos you should do you should have the
same level of respect for me that I
showed to durianrider I went and I got
the text of exactly what during writer
said about
schizophrenia I didn't just defame him I
did just make up I addressed what
he said how he said it why he said it
and you know to during writers credit he
replied to me addressing the substance
he had a video that was cold I ten
thousand percent cured Crohn's disease
my video critiquing his claim to have
cured an incurable disease he replied to
the substance of that and I respect him
for that that you know he didn't just
denounce me or defame me he didn't at
that time he didn't just say yeah well
your girlfriend is only 18 years old or
something he actually he saw my video in
which I criticized his pseudo medical
claim to having cured and curable
disease in which he's telling other
people that they also can cure their
diseases etc and he said he doubled down
and he defended his position I respect
that okay you guys if you want to be my
credits critics if you want to tackle me
you think I'm so disrespectful to freely
enduring writer because words like fraud
appear in their fraud used in a
completely reasonable sense if you lie
about your university credentials or
your certificates of education the
educational qualifications you have it
is not unreasonable to describe that as
a fraud not at all okay a talking about
someone is mentally ill in this context
again okay so if you want to take me
down if you want to criticize me please
do but if you think I'm so disrespectful
to derail my turn freely I can ask you
on the contrary why don't you rise to my
level why don't you show me as much
respect for what I actually said in
criticizing me as I show freely interim
writer because I don't invent stuff out
of thin air I'm criticizing their actual
political positions their actual
promises the actual pseudo-sciences in
their diet I'm criticizing the real
problems within their part of the vegan
movement and the problems the direction
they were dragging the vegan movement
towards and that's real and for a lot of
you that's how you discover my youtube
channel and that's why you're still here
listening to me because there's nothing
entertaining there's nothing sexy
there's nothing appealing about these
video
I'm not telling you what you want to
hear i'm not selling you a dream I'm not
lying to you about the bright future of
veganism I'm not lying to you that you
can eat 5,000 calories a day and get no
exercise and still lose weight I'm not
even selling you a dream vacation in
Thailand okay but you're still here
listening because on some level you know
that it's real